# gesture-controlled-camera-app
Mobile iOS app for a gesture recognition system for automatic photo and video capturing

----------Proposal----------
Innovations for commercial photography and videography electronics currently offer consumers many methods and price ranges for image capturing, including drones for aerial image capture, mobile phone cameras for portable imaging, and professional lenses and tripods. Although these tools’ quality and availability have improved, photography and videography remain primarily a hands-on practice with little to no innovation in automating the task. Tools such as tripods, selfie-sticks, and timers support users interested in capturing images that generally require more than one person. This paper proposes a gesture recognition system for an automatic photo and video-capturing mobile application to build a low-cost and accessible tool that supports automation in personal photography and videography.

This mobile iOS application we are proposing will include a simple graphical user interface to automate user requests for photo and video captures. The application will integrate with the user’s mobile camera and store images in the mobile devices existing photo album. The application will request permission to access the mobile phone camera to set it in the “powered-on” state. Through the GUI, the user may start and stop the capture process. Upon starting the capture, the GUI will show the user the camera’s view to manually control the picture frame. While the capture is active, the GUI will be updated with a 3-second count-down to indicate that a photo or video is about to be taken if it identifies a known gesture performed by the user. The number of pictures or the video’s duration depends on the gesture that the user displays.
